Step 1: Prepare Baking Pans
Nobody wants their cake to stick to the pan, so it's important to prep your pans before pouring in the batter. 

Step 2: Allow Ingredients to Reach Room Temperature
Many recipes require ingredients such as eggs and butter to stand at room temperature. This allows the butter to blend easily with other ingredients and the eggs will yield a higher cake volume. (For food safety reasons, don't leave the eggs at room temperature for more time than specified in the recipe.)

Step 3: Preheat the Oven
When a cake bakes too quickly it can develop tunnels and cracks, too slowly and it can be coarse. Let your oven preheat for at least 10 minutes

Step 4: Stir Together Dry Ingredients
Dry ingredients usually include flour, baking powder and/or baking soda, and salt. Rather than adding each dry ingredient individually to the batter, whiskthem together in a bowl beforehand. That way you know the ingredients are equally distributed throughout the batter.

Step 5: Combine the Butter and Sugar

Creaming butter and sugar is the most important step. Here's how:
i)Using an electric mixer on medium to high speed, beat the butter for 30 seconds.

ii)Add the sugar (and vanilla if the recipe calls for it) and beat the mixture on medium speed until it is combined and has a light, fluffy texture. 
   This will take 3 to 5 minutes. (DON'T cut this short). Scrape the bowl occasionally while beating. 
   Tiny bubbles will be created as the butter and sugar are combined, which will give your cake that dreamy, light, fluffy texture.

Step 6: Add Eggs One at a Time
Add eggs (or egg whites) one at a time, beating well after each. 
Their protein creates structure around air bubbles to maintain texture.

Step 7: Alternate Adding Dry and Wet Ingredients
i)   Alternate between adding some of the flour mixture and some of the milk (or other liquid specified in the recipe) to the butter-egg-sugar mixture, beating on low speed after each addition until combined. 

ii)  Begin and end with the flour mixture. 

iii) This is because when liquid is mixed into flour, gluten begins to form. Too much gluten makes for a tough cake, so be sure to start and finish with flour, and not overmix once you add liquid.


Test Kitchen Tip: Never use melted butter when softened butter is called for. It will ruin the cake texture.
Test Kitchen Tip: Break eggs individually into a custard cup or small bowl first. This way if you get shell fragments, you can easily fish them out of the cup rather than try to get them out of the batter.